---
title: Year 2025
classes: wide
date: 2025-01-09 00:00:05 +0700
header:
  image: assets/images/brag-docs/2025/cover.jpg
  teaser: assets/images/brag-docs/2025/teaser.jpg
  caption: "credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com/photos/a-view-of-a-mountain-covered-in-clouds-VgNEZJ3JxvY)"
sidebar:
  - title: "Role"
    text: "Developer"
  - title: "Responsibilities"
    text: "เก็บตก"
toc: true
toc_label: สารบัญ
---


## Goals for year 2025

I will focus on and embrace the quote: 

> "Mastering the basics."   

> "Get the fundamentals down and the level of everything you do will rise."
>
> Michael Jordan

This year, I plan to start personal projects related to topics that interest me.   
I also add new activities to my daily routine until they develop into new habits.   

This is not about work life balance.   
I just want to focus on developing my skills and improving myself every day,   
becoming a better version of me than I was yesterday.   

### New Habits I Want to Acquire
- [ __Read__ ] Enhance my reading skills using the recall technique and by taking notes.
- [ __Write__ ] Write blogs or articles in both Thai and English.
- [ __Meditation__ ] Meditate daily, either before bed or after waking up.
- [ __Language__ ] Learn new English vocabulary regularly.
- [ __Communication__ ] Record myself to improve my communication skills in English.

### Make website for friend (simple webapp)
- Learn how businesses operate in marketing and sales.
- Start everything from scratch, from design to deployment.
- Study all topics required for this project, such as:
  - Programming languages
  - Frameworks
  - Design patterns

### Read Books
Finish books I haven't completed or start books I want to read.
- The Almanack of Naval Ravikant
- Grit
- วิธีชนะมิตรและจูงใจคน
- เทคนิคเลิกคิดเยอะแล้วทำทันที
- The Daily Stoic
- วิถีผู้ชนะฉบับคนเก่งแบบเป็ด
- Atomic Habits
- Thinking, Fast and Slow
- Clean code
- Software Engineering at Google
- Data engineering fundamental
- Grokking Algorithms

### Write Blogs or Articles 
- Publish on Medium and my personal website to share my ideas.

### Learn Topics of Interest or Necessity
- Math (Algebra)
- Refactoring -> [Guru](https://refactoring.guru/refactoring)
- Design Pattern -> [Guru](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns)

### Improve English Skills
- Draw mind-mapping of the English language.
- Focusing on output learning (speaking and writing).
- Learn 10 new words each week, including regular, academic, or specific-topic vocabulary.
- (Optional) Take an exam to assess my proficiency and understanding of English.

### Home Server Project
Using a Raspberry Pi or an old PC to :
- Set up a private file server.
- Create a private media server.
- Set up a private VPN server.

### Activities to Improve My Mental Health and Keep Me Sane
- Learn new hobbies for mental well-being:
  - Learn to play a musical instrument.
  - Start meditating.
- Play story-driven games:
  - Monster Hunter: World
  - Warhammer 40K: Space Marine II
  - Path of Exile (POE)
- Start socializing more to improve my communication skills.
- Engage in outdoor activities.

### ... That’s it for now. I’ll keep things updated. ...